Hello.

I originally created this as a web page (https://internetwebsite.cyou/anathem/clock.html) to keep track of metric time. Metric time is when the various quantities we use to measure time are all factors of ten as opposed to 60 or 24. The basic premise is that instead of keeping track of days as 86,400 seconds. We do 100,000 metric seconds. 

There are two types of metric time: earth-based and universal. 

Earth-based metric time starts at 0 at solar noon for whatever locale you may be at. Originally, I had planned to stick strictly to the 100k seconds per day, but because there is variation in the length of day throughout the year, that variance is added to the clock with some days having more time and some days having a little less. The days are organized into months based on the lunar cycle. Weeks, days of the week, and the regular names for months aren't really a thing in this system. The main advantage of this system (over universal time) is that, ideally, everyone has a frame of reference in regards to what time of day it is and how much day has progressed. 0 is always solar noon whether you are in Los Angeles or Shanghai. The main disadvantage of this system is that if you're coordinating across just a couple hours' drive west or east, there is quite a difference in when solar noon is so it's only really useful within a localized area for the most part.

Universal metric time is 100,000 metric seconds per day and 1,000 days makes a cycle. And that's it. (Originally, I started with earth-based time and to be honest, it's a little unwieldy in its current implementation because you have to keep inputting when solar noon is for your locale and if you use a solar noon from a few days ago, there's drift.) Universal time has been significantly easier for me to use. The only difficulty is that 0 isn't solar noon and it will continue to drift indefinitely as time goes on and because it's universal, there is no consistent frame of reference for different locales across the planet. 0 is not solar noon for Los Angeles or Shanghai. 

A word on formatting: So there are three variables in universal time, the time of the day listed in metric seconds. (This can be abbreviated to the nearest thousandth, so 35,320 would be 35.3k. You also distinguish between univeral or earth time like so: u35.3k or e35.3k, respectively.) After a 100,000 metric seconds, a day has been completed. Cycles are the metric equivalent of a year, which are a thousand days. The current format for cycle and date is <cycle>-<day>, so today's date in universal time (at least how it's currently calculated) is 4391-635.

As I previously mentioned, I made this as a web app just for ease of use and creation, but there was a significant delay. At one point, I was watching the clock while doing something, waiting for 1k to pass and after an inordinate amount of time, I refreshed the page. 2k has passed instead!! I knew then that I had to create something that wouldn't have that drift that a JS page is prone to. 

